# History of Cybernetics and its Intersection with Cryptography

#### by Dylan Rosario  [@soltrinox](https://github.com/soltrinox)


---

DEFINITION: Cognometrics ~ English ; Noun
A class of personal authentication techniques based on measuring innate cognitive abilities of the human brain (e.g. ability to recognize a familiar face, or association of data points in a segmented projection ).

This disclosure pertains to the field of Information Theory and Logical Probability. The genesis of this multi-field embodiment stems from the interaction of sentient beings and machines, a subject that has been pursued by a multitude of academics and philosophers since the beginning of recorded human history. Disclosed is a method of theoretic Information Entanglement between a plurality of Conscious Entities and Machine(s). As claimed, we present a new and novel Architecture for Transmission and Disclosure of Information Conforming to Theoretic Perfect-Secrecy Between Conscious or Cognitive Entities.

The field of the science and art to which this patent is classified pertains to the theoretical and practical application of works involving control and communication theory, whether in the machine or in the animal, known as Cybernetics. Cybernetics was coined and named by Professor Norbert Wiener, the recipient of the 1963 National Medal of Science. His contribution to the field of information, computing, and mathematics was instrumental in subsequent combinatorial works by Dr. Alan Turing, Dr. John Von Neumann, and Dr. Claude Shannon. The Enigma Breaking titans of the 20th century originated the various fields of calculus systems defined in the sciences, theories, and engineering leading to the culmination and creation of the modern digital computing era.

At every stage of technique since the time of Daedalus to Hero of Alexandria, the ability of the artificer to produce a working simulacrum of a living organism has always intrigued mankind. At all states of existence, whether supernatural from above or the origins of physicality from below, the conscious experience in pursuit of universal truth is limited to that which is perceptible to man's naive eye.

It is an undeniable fact that resonates with a natural "logical truth," not based upon secular religious or scientific ideation and conjecture, but a truth based upon the information collected by our phenomenological experience from the individual observable reference frame, a truthful material universe of which we call reality. Whether it be the nano-scale Fourier transform on a 3D fMRI electron microscope capturing the folding of protein chains at resolutions of 2 Angstroms, providing us Sapiens with a macroscopic view into the effects of quantum information upon our most basic biological building blocks, or a Bell experiment executed on a planetary scale, helping mankind look beyond the surface of the cosmos, down to the neutrino and photon-entangled gravitational fluctuations between 2 colliding pulsars, millions if not billions of light-years away, it becomes apparent that the universe in which you and I exist as sentient beings is composed at its most fundamental level of pure information that manifests into physical reality.

Information crosses back and forth between the physical universe and that which is on the other side of material reality. There is irrefutable evidence pointing to a degree of nonspecific yet predictable uniformity across dimensional planes, drawing upon the conjecture and intuition boldly recorded and declared by the fathers of quantum mechanics and relativity, Niels Bohr, Albert Einstein, Max Planck, Stephen Hawking, and their contemporaries.

Despite the progress that we have in understanding the material world, the hard problem, the one that has baffled mankind, is the mystery that lies within, the source of our consciousness has been questioned and explored throughout time, originating from our species on the continent of Africa and Central Asia, echoing from the halls of the Greek philosophers such as Socrates and Plato to Siddhartha, to Confucius, to Leibniz, to Descartes, to Planck, to Einstein, to Hawking. The mystery of consciousness has eluded mankind throughout time, as it still stands as an enigma of the Modern Day.

The knowledge of our self, the material, mechanical, and physical nature of the biological chassis in which our consciousness manifests, a form of sentience, although scholars will argue towards varying degrees of consciousness up and down the ladder of life, we cannot dispute the uniqueness and phenomenal quality afforded to mankind. We very well might not be alone as sentient beings in this universe; there are clues and signs inching towards the evidence that can very well bear fruit and change our understanding of our place. The concept of multiverse and parallel dimensions is not a subject I wish to explore nor divulge my own logical intuitions; that does not mean that the very factual and observational attributes that comprise our explainable reality lack mystery.

Returning to the concept of information as it pertains to reality and our understanding of the constructs to which reality and the observable universe are available to us, it is easy to forget the fundamentals, for we are blinded by the macroscopic collapse to which the consciousness of the individual suffers.

Information as a state of actuality requires the acceptance that if information exists, it can also not exist. Rigorous logical exploration of this concept results in a paradox of a sort: how one may know that something exists is to know that something could also not exist. The paradox of actuality need not lead one to locking a cat into a box simply to prove Schrodinger's sadism. But the state of reality for which we know information to be in existence is but a notion to which a conscious entity may transcend through faith.

If told by our elementary science teachers that there is such a thing as an electron, despite the fact that it's impossible to actually observe an electron, we take it upon faith and logical reasoning that the disruption of reality consisting of the material universe is disturbed and altered by these invisible subatomic particles.

In this case, should a child in the classroom of this scenario take it upon faith that the information provided to her is, in fact, true, despite the child never observing this disturbance in the fabric of reality by said subatomic component of the atom, the theoretical acknowledgment of information existing, in other words, actual or real, need not perturb our sensibilities as logical sentient beings.

The term faith, as pertaining to the actuality of truth, is natural for the sentient entity to perceive. That something exists is evident through simple observation or through the faith given in the credibility of the source to which the statement and/or claim originates. The specifics of the information need not be known by the individual who accepts truth based upon faith they have in the actuality pertaining to a cognitive subject. The existence of information is taken upon faith by the individual sentient observer and participant in a mutual agreement.

This realization of the actuality paradox does not immobilize us from participating in reality. The practice of information disclosure by one party to be true or actual yet is inaccessible to the second party to whom verification of the information is improbable, impractical, or impossible to verify has not prevented billions of people throughout history from imbuing faith in the existence and validity of the information.

If this were not the case, no one would get onto an airplane without faith in the concepts of aerodynamics and lift as a factor of energy transformed into motion, and the faith of airline passengers as to the constant of gravitational acceleration. Faith remains instrumental to our interaction with the universe and reality around us. Information shared from the first party to a second party need not be taken on faith in the classic religious or logical model for which we are accustomed to in the physical existence to which all sentient beings are conscious. Information transcends the physical boundaries of the world around us, manifesting in the pulses and potentials of electrons and photons traveling through arbitrary carrier mediums of the material world.

It is my desire to outline a methodology that allows for a form of faith to be established between 2 entities, not limited by the entities external  to our physical bodies; it may simply be faith that one single cell knows something and that another cell within one's body agrees that that is true, actual, and valid. The second cell will take action based upon that information to which it operates and performs within this universe and physical dimension in a manner that adheres and/or abides by the information shared by its brethren cell.

The knowledge of information is powerful, having the ability to cut a stone in a particular manner allows a Mason to erect an arch, gives the ability of a sailor to catch the wind and propel a vessel across the planet. It allows the child to find his way to the kitchen for a glass of milk in the dark. It is also possible for an individual to know that they do not have information; for information that is not known can still be known due to its absence and the faith that it does exist. There have been many individuals throughout time who have expended significant amounts of energy and effort in the pursuit to validate information; there have been times that individuals have pursued ideals and goals based upon information that consists of nothing more than fantasy; individuals have even sacrificed their lives based on false information.

The quandary that a sentient being must ask when presented with information is to establish the validity and/or authenticity of the information to which they are being asked to take faith. The airline passenger has faith in the information used by the aeronautical engineer when they design a plane; the soldier in a war takes it upon faith that their commanding officers are providing accurate information as to prevent and/or avoid violent confrontations with the enemy; the doctor and his patient have faith in accurate diagnosis and the subsequent prescription; the pedestrian has faith that the vehicles on the street will stop and heed the right-of-way as they cross through intersections; faith need not be embedded in religious dogma, nor needed to be based upon philosophical ideals, it is evident that faith manifests purely from the concept that something is held to be true for which a lack of information is irrelevant or unnecessary.

Today we have faith in the mathematics of Einstein and relativity as we drive our vehicles powered by GPS satellites that calculate the relative speed of light into the two-dimensional plot animated on our electronic devices. We have faith that E=mc^2; we do not have to question it; we do not have to challenge it because the evidence before us through the observational universe and reality provides enough evidence for a conscious sentient being to accept that relativity, in fact, exists. And yes, one can calculate it should they so desire, but for the masses, they accept this and take faith that the information provided to them regarding an esoteric mathematical algorithm postulated and declared a century ago. We take faith that the information pertaining to general and special relativity is in fact credible and true; we have faith that it has been calculated by scientists and teachers in order to verify and corroborate Mr. Einstein's postulation.

Taking information upon faith requires no more effort than one expends believing in the actuality of Einstein's general relativity. Upon this premise, we can build a foundation that describes the scope of known information between 2 entities: information that one knows, and the faith of a second entity that the laws of probability, entropy, mathematics, and biology are birthed from credible and authentic sources. The intellectuals and explorers throughout history have pursued mysteries of the physical universe. Yet one mystery still eludes mankind; there are those who claim to have insights into the origin and mechanisms behind consciousness; unfortunately, the evidence required to establish infallible and retractable truth demands a degree of mastery that we have yet to achieve. Understanding ourselves, our conscious minds, and the methods in which our biological chassis and its constituent parts made up of quadrillions of cells independently and collectively working together, still remains a mystery.

The mechanisms behind conscious and cognitive thought, the phenomenological experience of sentience, and the metaphorical actualization of qualia remain a riddle still to this day, unattainable even by the brightest minds that our species has yet to produce. Despite the fanciful declarations of religions and cultures claiming to have unlocked the secrets of the human mind's conscious affect, there has yet to be a single individual or organization that is step forward explaining the mechanisms to which consciousness and the experience we have as biological living entities.

The field of computer science and that of neural-physics today, founded upon the collective knowledge recorded throughout history, accompanied by faith pertaining to the validity surrounding theoretical postulations, and verified through mathematical proof, has endeavored to unlock and expose the mystery behind conscious thought within sentient life. The reflective and observational science of cognitive psychology, lacking a material or physical anchor, has provided a metric to which we are capable of measuring our understanding of consciousness. Although there is no exact or accepted model defining the actual and truthful (verifiable) origin of consciousness, we take it upon faith that such a model exists despite the fact that there is sparse evidence supporting the notion to which we sentient conscious humans believe it to be.

In this case, the faith that we collectively agree upon as to the phenomenological experience called consciousness is rooted in our logical deduction that for every observation we perceive in reality must have a cause and origin to which it is attributed. Our logical, sensible minds show us that information, in the form of photons emitted by the star at the center of our solar system, produces a spectrum of radiation. Thus we know that the light for which we observe the sunrise is caused by and originates from Sol.

Expanding upon this premise, the logical mind postulates that should consciousness through observation of ourselves and others around us exist, it must originate from a source; the sentience of a living being is caused by some force or interaction of nature. As mankind has explored the physical mechanism to which we attribute consciousness, the biological chassis, the complex web of cells encased within our skeletal structures, a new and better understanding of our conscious process has emerged.

Surprisingly rudimentary consciousness and intent have been observed in lifeforms completely devoid of DNA and neurons. Single cell life shows the evidence of operating under information which is not evident to us; how can a cell of which has no mechanical means of thought nor capacity to recall and act upon information within the material world move away from harmful environments, and towards which provide it the capacity for replication? The mystery of consciousness is not something that we aim to debate here, but the empirical and universal evidence that information exists beyond the levels of cognitive capacity afforded to our biological minds.

Information passes between nothing, the void, anti-universe, and that which we call reality fluidly and in a manner that adheres to a level of symmetry and perfection to which we cannot explain. Why do 2 atoms of hydrogen and 1 of oxygen bind together to make water? Why not 3 atoms of hydrogen and 1 of oxygen? Or 4 atoms of H for that matter? Why only 2, why indeed. This is the mystery of absolute natural truth as considered from the perspective of information and faith that reality is fundamentally and irreducibly composed of information. For this, we must believe, for without this faith in absolute truth, we could not exist in this or any dimension.

Researchers in computer science and neural physics, as well as those in biology, have taken up the mantle and the challenge to explore the origins of human consciousness. Scientists have built amalgamations (construct representing) to emulate what is believed to be the mechanisms in which biological life employs neurological processes to determine and predict environmental sensory data, for the purpose of animating and recognizing our collective biological chassis of cells in order to achieve hospitable states to where the cells may be replicated using the most efficient and lowest expenditure of energy.

As a collective organism of biological cells that operate based upon predefined molecular and atomic blueprints, regardless of the reduction down to the quantum state fields, despite entropy introduced deriving observational Brownian motion, our cells still replicate and always will reproduce themselves based upon the laws of reality. Knowing that information is the building blocks of reality, we and the collective unity of cells that make each 1 of us sentient beings is a compound effect resulting from perfect information guided by unseen blueprints that manifest into our universe.

The discussion of information as it pertains to consciousness is directly relevant to the mechanisms in which we employ for the purpose of information entanglement between and within singular or plural entities. The conscious state supporting the existence of truth, the actuality of information, accepting the experience of observer, the existence of information as evidence of truth, a value and concept that need be challenged despite its origin in the faith that true information and thus the knowledge known by one entity to be true can be taken on faith and thus perpetuate the action of a second entity, or third or any number of entities to which may believe that the information provided by the first entity to be true given a number of assertions through the process of probability supported cognition.

The concept of information secrecy and the methods used historically before the advent of the computer age were limited by the capability of the available mechanisms, the carrier medium in which information is transmitted/projected, and the cognitive and technical capacity of the individual entity(s) who own and wish to secure or communicate any specific datum or information. The challenge of information security has plagued governments, societies, and individuals for millennia.

Modern society through the ages has faced many challenges to secrecy of information and still continues (in all manners of human existence) to suffer from serious concerns regarding security and privacy. The foundation of these woes is rooted in the nature of the technology, its capabilities, and lack thereof. Today the multitude of exploits, hacks, and surveillance (to which the average party must endure) grows at an astronomical rate; even sometimes as many as hundreds of new exploits and hacks may be created or used on a daily basis. Information regardless of its manifestation is susceptible to loss, damage, alteration, destruction, and theft.

The security of information has only 2 states: either it is secure or it is not. It is a common notion that the best security for information is to never disclose it, to anyone, or any system. This concept might contradict its fundamental purpose, that information alone cannot be applied and confirmed between 2 parties should only one party have access. There are many conditions where information must be verified between 2 parties; historically the very nature of disclosing the information (for the purpose of validation) required that the information is not by any particular party.

Nearly all systems today to which depend and or seek to implement information secrecy employ a form of methodical process that results in a logical state known as Proof of knowledge. Historically the processes required to establish proof of knowledge between two or more entities and/or systems have been plagued by the nature in which such systems have been constructed and implemented.

There are many subjects and domains to which information security may be applied. Although the various use cases requiring the security of information may be as broad and as wide as the implementations to which it is integral, the aim of this patent is to define a mechanism for which information may be presented, transmitted, encoded, projected, and cognitive for the purpose of maintaining information security.

There are currently no methods of authentication available on the market that offer perfect-secrecy while under surveillance and or malicious observation.

The threat of surveillance and or credential interception is possible on many vector and attack surfaces. Numeric digital keypads, RFID, facial recognition, biometric voice prints, fingerprint scanners all suffer from numerous hacks and discrepancies which are exploited on a far too regular basis. Credential and identity theft is the number one concern of the general public, not to mention the private sector and government. In the case of personal biometrics being exposed in a data breach, this effectively eliminates any future use of physical biometrics as a form of secure, unique and secret key credentials permanently.

The challenge is daunting and simply put the nature and methods behind the embodiments of this disclosure may come in a number of capacities and designs, the common aspect that permeates across all of the various designs and embodiment is the method in which the entity seeking authentication and or credential verification uses to interact with the challenging entity(s) systems and interfaces. The information is unique and uniquely temporal to the information in which it is being disclosed.

Based upon these attributes that comprise the disclosure include a new and powerfully secure and impenetrable paradigm of information entry, transmission, and disclosure is achieved; this disclosure and the claims included so completely address and provide solutions to the problems in the process and mechanism used for information entry and disclosure. It is known to the best of our ability that at no time prior until the disclosure of this art have these problems and limitations inherent to secure information entry have yet to be claimed under patent as to so thoroughly resolve


### A Mathematical Framework for Ensuring Completeness and Avoiding Paradoxes.

In pursuit of establishing completeness within the complexity class NP while circumventing Russell's Paradox, a novel semantic schema has been devised by the author. This schema serves as the foundational framework from which both the Rosario Holographic Language and the Rosario Holographic Proof are derived. This exposition adopts the Axiom of Schema Specification as the cornerstone upon which a validation protocol is constructed. Within this protocol, any algorithm, regardless of its execution on arbitrary Turing Machines, including those within the Quantum Turing Machine class, is guaranteed to halt uniformly. This uniform halting can be attributed to the presence of an underlying secret morphism embedded within the Rosario Holographic Language, Protocol, and Commitment Scheme, thereby introducing incompleteness into the language. 

The incompleteness, in turn, is a consequence of the perfectly hidden attributes inherent in these components. This perfect hiding capability facilitates the negation of associative information between observable language sets. Consequently, any attempt by Turing machine verifiers, including non-deterministic Quantum Turing Machines, to execute non-polynomial time NP cryptanalysis algorithms over non-probabilistic languages defines a well-known set of hard NP-complete problems. This can be construed as a halting condition owing to the absence of a bounded language that verifiers can extract a bijection from. 

Even in cases where a theoretical Quantum Turing Machine operates within QNP time and endeavors to perform such computations, it is widely acknowledged that the computational language's incompleteness renders our highly adaptable Turing Machine incapable of executing polynomial time computations.
In this context, it becomes evident that the Rosario Holographic Language, as an integral part of any arbitrary probabilistic algorithm that any Turing Machine, quantum or otherwise, may execute, unequivocally grapples with Gödel's incompleteness theorem. 

The Holographic Language exemplifies the scenario in which a set of axioms is considered syntactically or negation-complete if, for any statement in the language of the axioms, either the statement itself or its negation is provable from the axioms. The completeness of the Holographic Cypher and Protocol, concerning the available time for computationally bounded Turing Machines, is perfectly negated.
Consequently, the inevitable NP completeness leads to a halting-time collision, wherein the condition is reflected in the required operational cycles for a Universal Turing Machine whose permutations ultimately converge to a state of effective zero probability. This eventuality signifies that time has effectively exceeded the anticipated entropic terminus of the physical universe, thereby encompassing the culmination of all known reality.

The Rosario Holographic Cryptography introduces the implementation of perfectly secret symmetric black-box morphisms, a pioneering achievement in its domain. The symmetry of these hidden language morphisms forms the bedrock of the Rosario Holographic Language, encapsulating the specification of a secure language and consistency. Specifically, any set of axioms is considered consistent if no statement and its negation can be simultaneously proven from the axioms; otherwise, it is deemed inconsistent.

In aggregate, the Rosario Holographic Primitives encompass the following aspects: Primitive #1 entails perfect zero knowledge ambiguity within the sigma authentication protocol; Primitive #2 encompasses perfect witness hiding within the verification protocol; Primitive #3 revolves around the entropic constraints inherent in the random cipher key; and Primitive #4 pertains to the symmetric hidden morphisms of the Zero-Knowledge languages, concealing all information tuples of the interactive proof from any external observer. When these primitives are employed collectively, they simultaneously embody Gödel's incompleteness theorem and perfect Shannon secrecy.

